Editorial review for Window Management API docs (#29719)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window_management_api/index.md

---
title: Window Management API
slug: Web/API/Window_Management_API
page-type: web-api-overview
status:
  - experimental

> browser-compat: api.Window.getScreenDetails

Author: Good call, thanks Will. I've added this in my next commit.

The **Window Management API** allows you to return detailed information on the displays connected to your device and more easily place windows on specific screens, paving the way towards more effective multi-screen applications.

## Concepts and usage

Historically, we have used {{domxref("Window.open()")}} to manage browser windows related to the current application — opening new windows, resizing and closing existing windows, etc. For example, to open a 400×300 window 50 pixels from the left and top of your screen:

```js
const myWindow = window.open(
  "https://example.com/",
  "myWindow",
  "left=50,top=50,width=400,height=300",
);
```

You can retrieve information about your screen from the {{domxref("Window.screen")}} property, such as how much screen space you have available to place windows in.

However, the above features are limited. `Window.screen` only returns data about the primary screen, and not secondary displays available to a device. To move a window to a secondary display, you could use {{domxref("Window.moveTo()")}}, but you'd have to guess what coordinates to use based on where it is placed in your setup relative to the primary display.

> The Window Management API provides more robust, flexible window management. It allows you to query whether your display is extended with multiple screens and return information on each screen separately: windows can then be placed on each screen as desired. It also provides event handlers to allow you to respond to changes in the available screens, new fullscreen functionality to choose which screen to put into fullscreen mode (if any), and permissions functionality to control access to the API.

Author: Updated in next commit.

> ### Multi-screen origin

Author: Yeah, you've got a good point here. In my next commit, I've put it on its own page and updated all relevant links to point to the correct place.

> The Window Management API introduces the concept of the **multi-screen origin** — this is the (0,0) coordinate of the host operating system (OS)'s virtual screen arrangement, around which all available screens and windows are positioned. The multi-screen origin is commonly, but not always, the top-left corner of the OS primary screen (which can usually be specified by the user via OS settings, and generally contains OS UI features such as the taskbar/icon dock).

Author: For the first comment, I know this is not ideal, but this wording was because the tech reviewer was concerned that it is not specified as mandatory in the spec. The spec actually says:

> A common convention is to set the multi-screen origin to the top-left of the primary screen, but it can be any arbitrary point within the virtual screen arrangement.

Which is pretty vague and unhelpful, but I guess browsers are at the mercy of what OSes decide.

I have tried to deal with this by changing the wording to:

> The multi-screen origin is the top-left corner of the OS primary screen by convention, although the spec stipulates that it could be any arbitrary point within the virtual screen arrangement.

What do you think?

For the second point, agreed. I have added a note to cover this.

> The Window Management API introduces the concept of the **multi-screen origin** — this is the (0,0) coordinate of the host operating system (OS)'s virtual screen arrangement, around which all available screens and windows are positioned. The multi-screen origin is commonly, but not always, the top-left corner of the OS primary screen (which can usually be specified by the user via OS settings, and generally contains OS UI features such as the taskbar/icon dock).

Reviewer: OK, yes, I agree that this is probably the best we can do here :).

> On devices with multiple displays, the following are true on Chrome. Firefox behaves in the same way, but not reliably/consistently, whereas Safari generally uses local values relative to the _current_ screen.

Author: Right, I have done this. I will now open up a PR to try to make sensible adjustments to the BCD for all these features in light of this change. I was really hoping to avoid this, as the compat situation for these features is messy, weird, and confusing. But you are right that this kind of info should be in BCD.

> On devices with multiple displays, the following are true on Chrome. Firefox behaves in the same way, but not reliably/consistently, whereas Safari generally uses local values relative to the _current_ screen.

Author: Update — the new BCD PR is at https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/21123

- The values of {{domxref("Window.screenLeft")}}, {{domxref("Window.screenTop")}}, {{domxref("Window.screenX")}}, {{domxref("Window.screenY")}} for each window are reported relative to the multi-screen origin.
- When using {{domxref("Window.moveTo()")}} and {{domxref("Window.open()")}}, windows are positioned relative to the multi-screen origin.

Say we have an external monitor of resolution 1920 x 1080 set as the primary monitor, and an internal laptop display of resolution 1440 x 900 set as a secondary monitor. Let's also say that the OS UI takes up 25px at the top of the screen, and is only drawn on the primary screen.

If the secondary screen was positioned directly to the right of the primary screen, top screen edges in line:

- The primary screen `left`/`top` values would be (0,0) while its `availLeft`/`availTop` values would be (0,25) — the OS UI thickness is added on.
- The secondary screen `left`/`top` values would be (1920,0) while its `availLeft`/`availTop` values would also be (1920,0) — the OS UI is not drawn on the secondary screen.

> ![Two rectangles representing the primary screen with the secondary screen positioned to the right, as described above](primary-screen-left.png)

Author: Not really. I did this using draw.io, and the PNGs came out pretty small in terms of file size, so I thought they were OK in that regard. I can revisit using SVGs instead in future projects.

However, if the secondary screen was positioned directly to the left of the primary screen, top screen edges in line:

- The primary screen `left`/`top` values would still be (0,0) while its `availLeft`/`availTop` values would be (0,25).
- The secondary screen `left`/`top` values would be (-1440,0) while its `availLeft`/`availTop` values would also be (-1440,0).

![Two rectangles representing the primary screen with the secondary screen positioned to the left, as described above](primary-screen-right.png)

## Use cases

The Window Management API is useful in cases such as:

- Multi-window graphics editors and audio processors that may wish to arrange editing tools and panels across different screens.
- Virtual trading desks that want to show market trends in multiple windows and put specific windows of interest in fullscreen mode.
- Slideshow apps that want to show speaker notes on the internal primary screen and the presentation on an external projector.

> ## How does it work?

Reviewer: IMO it looks great with these two sections split out.

The core of the Windows Management API is the {{domxref("Window.getScreenDetails()")}} method, which returns an object containing details of all the screens available to the user's system:

```js
const screenDetails = await window.getScreenDetails();

// Return the number of screens
const noOfScreens = screenDetails.screens.length;
```

> When `getScreenDetails()` is invoked, the user will be asked for permission to manage windows on all their displays (the status of this permission can be checked using {{domxref("Permissions.query()")}} to query `window-management`). Provided they grant permission, the resulting {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} object contains the following properties:

Author: Agreed. I've cut this section down a lot, removing notes that are available on the reference pages anyway, for the `ScreenDetails` properties, using `<li>`s, and removing the `ScreenDetailed` property list altogether.

> When `getScreenDetails()` is invoked, the user will be asked for permission to manage windows on all their displays (the status of this permission can be checked using {{domxref("Permissions.query()")}} to query `window-management`). Provided they grant permission, the resulting {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} object contains the following properties:

Author: Much better; changed.

> When `getScreenDetails()` is invoked, the user will be asked for permission to manage windows on all their displays (the status of this permission can be checked using {{domxref("Permissions.query()")}} to query `window-management`). Provided they grant permission, the resulting {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} object contains the following properties:

Reviewer: Very nice.

- `isPrimary`
  - : A boolean indicating whether this screen is set as the OS primary screen or not.
- `isInternal`
  - : A boolean indicating whether this screen is internal to the device or not.
- `label`
  - : A string providing a descriptive label for the screen, for example "Built-in Retina Display". This is useful for constructing a list of options to display to the user if you want them to choose a screen to display content on.

You'll still need to use {{domxref("Window.open()")}} to open and manage windows, but the above provides you with better information for doing so in a multi-screen environment. For example, a utility function might look like so:

```js
function openWindow(left, top, width, height, url) {
  const windowFeatures = `left=${left},top=${top},width=${width},height=${height}`;
  const windowRef = window.open(
    url,
    "_blank", // needed for it to open in a new window
    windowFeatures,
  );

  // Store a reference to the window in the windowRefs array

>   windowRefs.push(windowRef);

Reviewer: `windowRefs` should be defined somewhere. Personally I think it would be better for `openWindow` to return the window and make the caller add it, as this looks like a side-effect here.

Author: I've added a definition of `windowRefs` to the top of the code block, so it makes more sense.

I think having the push happening here is OK for this example; if you got the caller to do it, you'd have to add a new push line for each `openWindow()` call, or do it all in one line which might make the code example harder to understand.

}
```

You would then invoke this function and open windows on specific screens like this:

```js
const screen1 = screenDetails.screens[0];
const screen2 = screenDetails.screens[1];
// Windows will be a third the width and the full height of the screen
let windowWidth = Math.floor((screen1.availWidth - 3 * WINDOW_CHROME_X) / 3);

> let windowHeight = Math.floor(screen1.availHeight - WINDOW_CHROME_Y);

Reviewer: I think these lines need explaining, especially `WINDOW_CHROME_`, and these constants need defining. Also can't these variables be `const`?

Author: I have added comments into the code to explain these lines a bit more (both here and in the dom-examples repo).

And I have also changed the `let`s to `const`s.

> // Open the reference windows in thirds across the entire height of the primary screen

Reviewer: This comment doesn't really make sense without the other `open()` calls, so either add them or change this.

openWindow(
  screen1.availLeft,
  screen1.availTop,
  windowWidth,
  windowHeight,
  sites[1].url,
);

// ...
```

> As shown in an earlier code block, it is a good idea to keep track of the windows you have open, for example using an array. This allows you to, for example, close them all when one window is closed:

Reviewer: "As shown in an earlier code block" leaves me trying to find the place we did this. Could we be more explicit?

```suggestion
You'll see that after we open each window, we add it to the `windowRefs` array. This allows us to, for example, close them all when one window is closed:
```

Author: Agreed; changed.

```js
function closeAllWindows() {
  // Loop through all window refs and close each one
  windowRefs.forEach((windowRef) => {
    windowRef.close();
  });
  windowRefs = [];
}

// Check whether one of our popup windows has been closed
// If so, close them all

closeMonitor = setInterval(checkWindowClose, 250);

function checkWindowClose() {
  if (windowRefs.some((windowRef) => windowRef.closed)) {
    closeAllWindows();
    clearInterval(closeMonitor);
  }
}
```

> > **Note:** In our experiments, the {{domxref("setInterval()")}} polling method shown above seemed to work best for detecting window closure in the case of multiple windows. Using events such as {{domxref("Window.beforeunload_event", "beforeunload")}}, {{domxref("Window.pagehide_event", "pagehide")}}, or {{domxref("Document.visibilitychange_event", "visibilitychange")}} proved unreliable because, when opening multiple windows at the same time, the rapid shift in focus/visibility seemed to fire the handler function prematurely.

Reviewer: What's the effect on battery life of polling? It doesn't sound good that we can't reliably detect windows closing. Is this a Chrome bug, or just a consequence of the way the APIs are designed?

Author: Yeah, this is a consequence of API design. From my research, this kind of polling speed (4Hz) isn't going to have a major effect on battery life — and it doesn't need to be faster than that for the experience to be OK.

> > **Note:** One concern with the above example is that it uses constant values to represent the size of the Chrome window UI portions in the calculations — `WINDOW_CHROME_X` and `WINDOW_CHROME_Y` — to get the window size calculations correct. This might not produce entirely correctly-sized windows on other future implementations of the API, or future versions of Chrome that might have a different-sized UI. There currently isn't an easy way to work around this.

Reviewer: I'm really uncomfortable with this. Apart from different versions of Chrome, how can we write cross-browser code with this technique?

### Simple single-window per display case

If you want to open a single window on each available display that is the full width and height of the display, you could use a pattern like this:

```js
// Open a window on each screen of the device
for (const screen of screenDetails.screens) {
  openWindow(
    screen.availLeft,
    screen.availTop,
    screen.availWidth,
    screen.availHeight,
    url,
  );
}
```

### Window management events

> The Window Management API provides some useful events for responding to changes in the available screens:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Window Management API provides some events for responding to changes in the available screens:
```

Author: Updated, ta.

- The `ScreenDetails` {{domxref("ScreenDetails.screenschange_event", "screenschange")}} event
  - : Fired when screens are connected to or disconnected from the system.
- The `ScreenDetails` {{domxref("ScreenDetails.currentscreenchange_event", "currentscreenchange")}} event
  - : Fired when the window's current screen changes in some way.
- The `Screen` {{domxref("Screen.change_event", "change")}} event
  - : Fired on a specific screen when it changes in some way.

So for example, you could use the `screenschange` event to detect when the available screens have changed (perhaps when a screen is plugged in or unplugged), report the change, close all windows, and update window arrangements to suit the new configuration:

```js
screenDetails.addEventListener("screenschange", () => {

>   // If the new number of screens is different to the old number of screens, report the difference

Reviewer: Super nitpicky, but wrap comments at 80 characters or they get hard-wrapped on MDN.

```suggestion
  // If the new number of screens is different to the old number of screens,
  // report the difference
```

Author: I usually do, but I missed that one. Fixed!

    (screen) => screen.isPrimary,
  );
  await document.body.requestFullscreen({ screen: primaryScreen });
} catch (err) {
  console.error(err.name, err.message);
}
```

## Permissions policy integration

The {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy/window-management", "window-management")}} [Permissions-Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) can be used to control permission to use the Window Management API. Specifically:

- Usage of the {{domxref("Window.getScreenDetails()")}} method. If blocked, its {{jsxref("Promise")}} will reject with a `NotAllowedError` exception.
- Querying the {{domxref("Screen.isExtended", "Window.screen.isExtended")}} property. If blocked, it will always return `false`.

Developers can explicitly grant permission for an {{htmlelement("iframe")}} to use Window Management via the `allow` attribute:

```html
<iframe src="3rd-party.example" allow="window-management"></iframe>
```

## Interfaces

- {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}}
  - : Represents the details of all the screens available to the user's device.
- {{domxref("ScreenDetailed")}}
  - : Represents detailed information about one specific screen available to the user's device.

> ## Extensions to other interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Extensions to other interfaces
```

(per the template)

Author: fixed

- The `Screen` {{domxref("Screen.change_event", "change")}} event
  - : Fired on a specific screen when it changes in some way — for example available width or height, or orientation.
- {{domxref("Screen.isExtended")}}
  - : A boolean property that returns `true` if the user's device has multiple screens, and `false` if not.
- {{domxref("Element.requestFullscreen()")}}, the `screen` option
  - : Specifies on which screen you want to put the element in fullscreen mode.
- {{domxref("Window.getScreenDetails()")}}
  - : Returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} object instance.

## Examples

### Feature detection

You can feature detect the Window Management API by checking for the existence of `getScreenDetails` in the current `window` instance. For example, you might want to provide a button to open a multi-window display if the API is supported, or a different experience such as creating links to the different pages if it isn't:

```js
if ("getScreenDetails" in window) {
  // The Window Management API is supported
  createButton();
} else {
  // The Window Management API is not supported
  createLinks(sites);
}

> ```

Reviewer: I think this should live with "How does it work?" above (which in turn as said above I think should all live in a"Using the Window Management API" guide page).

Basically I don't think examples should describe functionality, they should just illustrate it.

Author: Good call; I've put it at the top of the separate "Using..." page.

### Full examples

You can find full examples here:

> - [Multi-window learning environment](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/window-management-api/) (see the [source code](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/window-management-api)).

Reviewer: Running this example in Chrome, with one screen, I only get a single window opened, and errors in the console:

<img width="634" alt="Screen Shot 2023-10-26 at 9 45 16 PM" src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/432915/8db7ea58-e9c0-41ea-b1ae-0934e6039ef0">

Reviewer: OK, it was the popup blocker in Chrome, making `window.open()` return `null`.The [`openWindow`](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/blob/18258d303c10cb5ddf831ee1f1e9f7a6f14c3d6c/window-management-api/index.js#L69) function should handle the error case here rather than adding `null` into `windowRefs`.

Author: Ah. This is happening because of a new default setting in Chrome that blocks pop-up windows — see https://goo.gle/allow-popups.

I've tested it and the official Google demos for this API are now failing because of this setting. When you change the setting to "Sites can send pop-ups and use redirects", it works.

This isn't a problem in Chrome Canary because popups are still enabled there.

@michaelwasserman, is there a workaround for this?

Reviewer 2: Chrome requires a separate user gesture for each window.open() call to succeed, unless users adjust that setting (i.e. chrome://settings/content/popups on desktop), and it has been that way for a long time.

Many sites simply ask users to explicitly unblock popups with that setting, including our newly published [multi-window platformer demo](https://github.com/googlechromelabs/multi-window-platformer-game).

I have a super rough draft explainer for [multiple popups per-gesture with window-management permission](https://github.com/w3c/window-management/blob/many-windows-many-screens/EXPLAINER_many_windows_many_screens.md), but there's no clear plan or timeline for such functionality.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good! I noticed the window.open reference includes BCD for that blocking behavior as "One Window.open() call per event". I don't have my Mac right now, but I bet Safari does similar blocking, contrary to that table.

Author: @michaelwasserman I wrote a [simple test](https://jsfiddle.net/chrisdavidmills/dry1k0q6/3/), and yes, it does exhibit the same behavior. Historic Safari release notes seem hard to find, but looking at this [SO post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46381681/open-multiple-pop-up-windows-in-safari-11), it looks like it was introduced in Safari 11.

I'll create a PR to update this.
